Update user guide contributing docs (#330)
MDAnalysis/UserGuide: doc/source/contributing_docs.rst

        In [2]: x**3
        Out[2]: 8

The ``nbsphinx`` extension lets you include Jupyter notebooks in the documentation.
Everything in the `Examples <https://userguide.mdanalysis.org/stable/examples/README.html>`_
or the `Analysis <https://userguide.mdanalysis.org/stable/examples/analysis/README.html>`_

> sections of the user guide is actually originally a Jupyter notebook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sections of the user guide is written as a Jupyter notebook.
```

Reviewer: Only a style thing, doesn't need accepting

        conda activate mda-user-guide
        jupyter-nbextension enable nglview --py --sys-prefix

.. _add-new-documentation:

Adding new documentation
========================

The documentation is built using `Sphinx <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/>`_.
The user guide is largely composed of four different kinds of files:

* :ref:`reStructuredText files <restructuredtext-files>` (``.rst``) which contain the text of the documentation
* :ref:`Jupyter notebooks <jupyter-files>` (``.ipynb``) which contain code examples
* Python scripts (``.py``) in the ``doc/source/scripts/`` directory which are used
  for automatically generated documentation
* Text files (``.txt``) which contain the automatically generated documentation.
  These should not be edited directly as changes will not be included.
  These are largely tables and lists of topology attributes for readers, writers,
  and parsers.

What file to edit
"""""""""""""""""

> The structure of the user guide is a bit convoluted!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: I agree – never apologize for supplying documentation!

        conda activate mda-user-guide
        jupyter-nbextension enable nglview --py --sys-prefix

.. _add-new-documentation:

Adding new documentation
========================

The documentation is built using `Sphinx <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/>`_.
The user guide is largely composed of four different kinds of files:

* :ref:`reStructuredText files <restructuredtext-files>` (``.rst``) which contain the text of the documentation
* :ref:`Jupyter notebooks <jupyter-files>` (``.ipynb``) which contain code examples
* Python scripts (``.py``) in the ``doc/source/scripts/`` directory which are used
  for automatically generated documentation
* Text files (``.txt``) which contain the automatically generated documentation.
  These should not be edited directly as changes will not be included.
  These are largely tables and lists of topology attributes for readers, writers,

>   and parsers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  and parsers.
```

    #. ``examples/quickstart.ipynb``
    #. ``faq.rst``
    #. ``examples/README.rst``

All internal links in the user guide are relative to the ``doc/source`` directory.
``installation.rst``, therefore, can be found at ``UserGuide/doc/source/installation.rst``.
This is the file you should edit if you want to change the installation instructions.

Note that the ``examples/quickstart.ipynb`` entry is a Jupyter notebook.
We use the `nbsphinx`_ extension to convert Jupyter notebooks to HTML
during the doc build. All changes to the Quickstart guide should be made
to the Jupyter notebook itself, and changes will be reflected in the final
documentation.

.. _restructuredtext-files:

reStructuredText files
""""""""""""""""""""""

These are the files that end in ``.rst`` and contain plain text.
reStructuredText is a markup language that is used to write
documentation for Sphinx in Python.
The `reStructuredText Primer <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html>`_
is a good place to start if you are unfamiliar with the syntax.

The user guide also makes use of a number of Sphinx extensions to ensure that the code examples are always up-to-date.

> One example is the `ipython directive <http://matplotlib.org/sampledoc/ipython_directive.html>`__.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One example is the `ipython directive <https://matplotlib.org/sampledoc/ipython_directive.html>`__.
```

The ``ipython`` directive lets you put code in the documentation which will be run
during the doc build. For example:

    ::

        .. ipython:: python

            x = 2
            x**3

will be rendered as:

    .. ipython::

        In [1]: x = 2

        In [2]: x**3
        Out[2]: 8

.. _jupyter-files:

Jupyter notebook files
""""""""""""""""""""""

Jupyter notebooks are a great way to write documentation, since they allow you to
write text and code in the same document. The user guide uses Jupyter notebooks
for all the tutorials and examples.

.. important::
    
    One of the neat things about ``nglview`` is the ability to interact with molecules via the viewer.
    Many of our notebooks include cells that render MDAnalysis systems.
    However, this creates very large files.
    **We ask that you avoid saving the state of the viewer in the notebooks.**
    We also ask in general that you leave NGLView cells commented out.

Everything in the ``doc/source/examples/`` directory is a Jupyter notebook.

> They are rendered in the user guide on the "Examples" page, and

Reviewer 2: Worth linking to the page?

> are also listed in the "Analysis" section of the user guide.

Reviewer 2: Worth linking to the section?

Author: Added links!

creates preview documentation on ReadTheDocs, which you can use to check renders.
We believe it is best to open PRs early and often, so that we can catch issues early!

Optional steps and tips
=======================

The below sections are optional, but may be helpful for more advanced users.

Using pre-commit hooks
""""""""""""""""""""""

Manually editing files can often lead to small inconsistencies: a whitespace here, a missing carriage return there.
A tool called `pre-commit <https://pre-commit.com/>`_ can be used to automatically fix these problems, before a git commit is made.
To enable the pre-commit hooks, run the following:

    .. code-block:: bash

        pre-commit install

To perform the pre-commit checks on all the files, run the following:

    .. code-block:: bash

        pre-commit run --all-files

To remove the pre-commit hooks from your .git directory, run the following:

    .. code-block:: bash

        pre-commit uninstall

Then :ref:`create a pull request <create-a-pull-request>`.
The only test run for the User Guide is: that your file compile into HTML documents without errors.

> As usual, a developer will review your PR and merge the code into the User Guide when it looks good.

Reviewer 2: Repetition of the section above. Is this intentional?

Author: No, oops -- removed as an accidental copy-paste. Thanks for the catch!

Adding changes to the UserGuide
===============================

As with the code, :ref:`commit and push <adding-code-to-mda>` your code to GitHub.
Then :ref:`create a pull request <create-a-pull-request>`.

> The only test run for the User Guide is: that your file compile into HTML documents without errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The only test run for the User Guide is that your file compile into HTML documents without errors.
```
?

> As usual, a developer will review your PR and merge the code into the User Guide when it looks good.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As usual, your PR will be reviewed and merged into the User Guide when it looks good.
```
Just to be a bit more open about who can/will do this? I.e. a non-developer but technical writer, etc.

> If you have issues building your documentation locally, pull requests
> create preview documentation on ReadTheDocs, which you can use to check renders.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have issues building your documentation locally, opening a pull request
creates preview documentation on ReadTheDocs, which you can use to check renders.
```
I think it reads a bit more clearly (at least to me)?

We believe it is best to open PRs early and often, so that we can catch issues early!

Optional steps and tips
=======================

The below sections are optional, but may be helpful for more advanced users.

Using pre-commit hooks
""""""""""""""""""""""

> Manually editing files can often lead to small inconsistencies: a whitespace here, a missing carriage return there. A tool called pre-commit can be used to automatically fix these problems, before a git commit is made. To enable the pre-commit hooks, run the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manually editing files can often lead to small inconsistencies: a whitespace here, a missing carriage return there.
A tool called pre-commit can be used to automatically fix these problems, before a git commit is made.
To enable the pre-commit hooks, run the following:
```
Slight visual improvement on single long line.

> Manually editing files can often lead to small inconsistencies: a whitespace here, a missing carriage return there. A tool called pre-commit can be used to automatically fix these problems, before a git commit is made. To enable the pre-commit hooks, run the following:

Reviewer 2: Worth adding a link to pre-commit?

Adding changes to the UserGuide
===============================

As with the code, :ref:`commit and push <adding-code-to-mda>` your code to GitHub.
Then :ref:`create a pull request <create-a-pull-request>`.
The only test run for the User Guide is that your file compile into HTML documents without errors.
As usual, your PR will be reviewed and merged into the User Guide when it looks good.

If you have issues building your documentation locally, opening a pull request
creates preview documentation on ReadTheDocs, which you can use to check renders.
We believe it is best to open PRs early and often, so that we can catch issues early!

Optional steps and tips
=======================

The below sections are optional, but may be helpful for more advanced users.

Using pre-commit hooks
""""""""""""""""""""""

Manually editing files can often lead to small inconsistencies: a whitespace here, a missing carriage return there.

> A tool called pre-commit can be used to automatically fix these problems, before a git commit is made.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A tool called `pre-commit <https://pre-commit.com/>`_ can be used to automatically fix these problems, before a git commit is made.
```

This will start a local webserver at http://localhost:8000/, which will refresh every time you save changes to a file in the documentation. This is helpful for both the user guide (first navigate to ``UserGuide/doc``) and the main repository documentation (navigate to ``package/doc/sphinx``).

Advanced preview with gh-pages
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

.. note::

    This section documents how to render documentation on a fork without ReadTheDocs.
    This is *generally unnecessary* and should only be done in cases where we
    believe ReadTheDocs is not rendering our documentation properly.
    For all other cases, please use the ReadTheDocs preview in pull requests.

> It is often difficult to review Jupyter notebooks on GitHub, especially if you embed widgets and images.

Reviewer: Should we be signposting to reviewnb here?

Author: Added a link
